Fixed issue #57 (#58)
canonical/open-documentation-academy: getting-started/troubleshooting.md

# Troubleshooting

This document aims to help you fix issues you're likely to encounter when setting up your machine to contribute to the Ubuntu guides.

> ## Troubleshooting WSL Failed Installation

Author: Thank you for pointing it out.

In this section, you'll learn how to troubleshoot the failed installation of Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) on your Windows machine. Note that if this method does not solve your specific problem, you can always refer to the [official Windows documentation](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/troubleshooting) to find a fix for your case.

If the `wsl --install` command does not work for you, especially if it returns the message "This operation timed out", you can debug the issue by following these steps:

1. Using your search bar, search for "Turn Windows features on or off" and select it. It'll open a window with some options for you. In this window, you should select the following options:
    * Virtual Machine Platform
    * Windows Subsystem for Linux

    ![Turn Windows features on or off](images/windows_on_and_off_feature.png)
    

> 2. After you select these options, open your system's task manager and navigate to the performance tab. You should look for an option that says "virtualisation" to make sure it's enabled. If it isn't enabled, follow this [tutorial to enable it for your system](https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/enable-virtualization-on-windows-11-pcs-c5578302-6e43-4b4b-a449-8ced115f58e1).

Reviewer: 1. I changed "tutorial" to "guide". We use the [Diataxis framework](https://diataxis.fr/) for documentation at Canonical, and a "tutorial" is something specific in Diataxis.
2. When you link to documents outside of the main documentation (i.e., this repo), it's good practice to be clear that the user is leaving the current documentation. This is why I made it more clear that it's a Microsoft guide. Here's an example of this somewhere else in the Landscape documentation: https://ubuntu.com/landscape/docs/windows-subsystem-for-linux-in-landscape

    ![performance tab of the Windows Task Manager](./images/task_manager_virtualisation.png)

> 3. The next step is to restart your machine and try the `wsl --install` command again. It should work now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Restart your machine and try the `wsl --install` command again. It should work now.
```

Reviewer: Just making it more concise - "the next step" isn't necessary since you already have the steps numbered

4. If you retry the command and it doesn't work as expected, you might see an error that says, "Windows Subsystem for Linux is already installed. The operation timed out".  In this case, you should update your WSL version with this command:
    ```shell
    wsl.exe --update
    ```

>     The next step is to set the default WSL version to version 2. Use this command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Then set the default WSL version to version 2:
```

Reviewer: Also making more concise :smiley:
